In this video, we'll see what
inheritance is all about.
In object orientation, inheritance
provides a method of creating new
classes from existing classes.
These new classes contain the data
and behaviors of the existing classes.
So as you can see that allows us to
reuse or inherit data and behaviors
that already exist, more importantly
where we're reusing behaviors that
have been tested and have already
been used in existing applications.
That's great, but it wouldn't be
very useful if I only inherited
data and behaviors and that's it.
But with inheritance, we can modify
the behaviors however we'd like to
make our newly created classes unique.
So the new class is based
on an existing class, but we
can tweak it so that it does
exactly what we want it to do.
And we can do this without
modifying the source code of the
original class we're reusing.
This is important since that class has
already been tested and it's probably
being reused by other applications.
So we really don't want
to modify it at all.
Of course, inheritance
must make sense.
We don't want to reuse a class
employee and create a new class
planet that contains the data
and behaviors of an employee.
Let's see some examples of
classes that are related somehow.
In many applications, when you're
designing your solution, you can
identify classes in your application
that are related to one another.
Sometimes the relationship
is clear, and other times the
relationship might be less clear.
This slide provides some
examples of related classes.
In a game application, we might
have player, enemy, level boss,
hero and super player classes.
These classes may have
attributes in common such as
health, xp, their position in
the game world and so forth.
In fact, maybe the classes are all
specializations of that player class.
In a banking application, you might
have different types of accounts,
some may have specialized business
rules for withdrawal, deposit, minimum
balances, interest rates and so forth.
But again, maybe all accounts
have a balance and provide the
withdrawal and deposit behaviors.
Usually, we can find commonality
among these classes, and
we can leverage that.
In a graphics or drawing application,
we may have many different types of
shapes that we can draw such as lines,
ovals, circles, squares and so forth.
Depending on our application,
maybe we can identify common
attributes that all shapes have.
Perhaps, their color, they must
be drawable, you should be able
to rotate and transform them.
And as you can see in the last
example, maybe we have an application
for a university personnel system.
You might have person employees,
students, faculty staff
administrators and so forth.
You get the idea.
Related classes are all around
us when we develop software.
Sometimes it makes sense to
extract out common elements of
related classes and model them on
their own so we can reuse them.
Let's look at the account
classes in more detail.
Here we can see that our
application has several
different types of accounts.
We have a basic account that
has balance and a way to
deposit and withdraw funds.
We also have a savings account
object that also has a balance
but an interest rate as well.
And the deposit and withdraw behavior
might be a little different from
those in the account class since they
have to consider the interest rate.
A checking account also has a balance,
but maybe you have to keep a minimum
balance, and there are per check fees.
So the deposit and withdraw behavior
for the checking account will be
different from both the savings
account and the regular account.
Finally, maybe we have a trust account
that has a balance and a deposit
functionality just like an account.
But the withdrawal only allows three
withdrawals per year of a maximum
of 10% of the account balance.
You can see that these types
of accounts are very different,
but they also have some common
attributes and behaviors.
Let's see how we could model
these accounts without any
inheritance or any reusability.
What we could do here is we
could create four independent
classes: account, savings account,
checking account and trust account
and implement them all totally
independent from one another.
Sure, this will work, but
will surely have code that's
duplicated across these classes
since some of the behavior and
some of the data will be common.
Let's see how we can use
inheritance to allow us to
reuse the account class.
We'll look at proper c++ syntax
for inheritance in a few videos.
For now, let's just look at
this from a conceptual view.
We have an account class that
models a balance and provides
a simple implementation
for withdraw and deposit.
Now we can use inheritance to
create a new class savings account
based on the account class.
So the savings account will inherit
balance and the implementations
of withdrawal and deposit
provided by the account class.
And the idea is that now we simply
add the interest rate attribute
to the new savings account class
and implement its own version
of deposit and withdrawal.
The same idea applies to
the last two examples.
A checking account is created using
the account class as a base and then
it adds what it needs and modifies the
behaviors to meet its requirements.
Finally, the trust account adds
an interest rate and implements
the logic in the withdrawal method
that supports the business logic.
You can see that these
classes are now interrelated.
In this case, the savings account,
checking account and trust account
classes depend on the account class,
and we have an inheritance hierarchy.
In this case, it's rooted
at the account class.
We'll talk more about inheritance
hierarchies in an upcoming video.
So now that we understand what
inheritance is, let's go over
some of the terminology and
notation used in the next video.